Ok, well welcome to the Get Fit with Jodell podcast.
I am as usual Jodell and I am happy to have once again Dr. Pete with me.
It's wonderful to have you, Dr. Pete, how are you?
Awesome.
Well, you are so generous with your time, so I have to ask you a question.
What drives you to be so passionate in helping people understand their bodies?
I want to understand how bodies work and you never understand everything and hearing people's
perspective gives me information.
I agree, we can never stop learning, so I am passionate to learn from you as we keep
moving forward.
I think everybody is going to really love the show today, it's all about sleep.
I've compiled quite a few questions from listeners for you, Dr. Pete, related to sleep, insomnia,
and possibly the anxiety around sleep.
We appreciate all that you are going to share with us today, but before we jump in, I highly
encourage you guys to sign up for his newsletter and you can either get that by regular mail
or through email and I literally get excited like a toddler given a new toy, Dr. Pete, when
I see your newsletter in my mail, so I'm always like, "Oh my gosh, there it is."
I just really want to encourage people with as generous as you are, we can give back to
you and learn from you at the same time.
Do you want to briefly just share with them how they can sign up for your newsletter?
Oh, the email address for doing it is repeatsnewsletter@gmail.com and together by email, it's $28 for 12
bi-monthly issues covering two years.
Awesome, and I so think that is worth it for the amount of knowledge that you give us in
those newsletters, so I highly encourage it you guys.
Let's jump right in, Dr. Pete.
The first question is mine, "Is there one main root cause behind most sleep issues or
is it a potpourri of reasons when it comes to someone having trouble sleeping?"
What's your thoughts?
Often, the immediate thing is fatigue that has depleted your glycogen stores, making
your detesting system overactive, and then the immediate thing is irritation from your
intestine bothering you during the night and causing your adrenaline to keep you awake.
But behind all of that, it's almost always a problem of energy metabolism, specifically
low thyroid function.
Your liver needs thyroid chemically in the local cells to activate the enzymes that convert
glucose into glycogen, and your body in the liver, muscles, brain mostly, your body stores
more than half a pound of glucose in the form of glycogen, and in good health, that's enough
to keep your system going through easily eight to 12 hours, but if something is especially
fatiguing or irritating or if your thyroid function is blocked in some way, then you
don't have enough stored glycogen to get you through the night, and that means that your
adrenaline has to increase to squeeze out any remaining glucose from your tissues, and
when that fails and your cortisol rises, and everyone has a normally high peak of cortisol
around dawn, because by the end of the night, most people are having some depletion of their
glycogen.
That part about digestion is really fascinating, so these people eating heavy meals before
they go to bed and expecting to get a good night's sleep, that's probably not going
to happen, right?
So, too much fat along with carbohydrates that are hard to digest, vegetables, beans,
grains, nuts, are especially irritating because they're slow to digest and promote the formation
of endotoxins when the bacteria grow on them.
So, then the endotoxin, I would assume, is increasing serotonin and elevated serotonin
is increasing cortisol, or is cortisol coming first, and how is that kind of agitating the
body?
Right.
Serotonin and histamine are released first in the intestine, but then if the endotoxin
starts poisoning other tissues, every tissue in your body can produce serotonin and histamine
when they're under energy distress, and then the serotonin is probably the main activator
of cortisol production.
I think people are going to really like this podcast because some of these questions that
they've asked are going to pertain to what you're talking about, but also just to jump
in about the timing of meals before you go to bed.
What's your thoughts on how soon someone should be done eating before they go to bed to help
with that problem?
Keeping, all day, keeping your carbohydrate intake at least moderate, and later in the
day going heavier on the carbohydrate, it's similar to athletes preparing for an endurance
contest.
They stuff themselves on carbohydrates, doing something like that, like having more carbohydrate
in relation to your protein in your last meal of the day prepares you for the endurance,
getting you through the night asleep.
People who are having a particular problem, if they haven't eaten anything that is really
causing inflammation in their intestine, if they just feel that they've been doing too
many exciting things during the day and have depleted their energy stores, sometimes just
having a big bowl of ice cream or maybe a whole plate full of marshmallows, some really
big load of sugar just before going to bed that will sometimes put a person to sleep.
Since you need sodium to absorb sugar, sometimes sodium is the limiting nutrient.
A friend of mine had a little kid that never wanted to go to sleep at a proper time.
I told him about the function of salt.
He prepared some very salty water and at bedtime had his four-year-old daughter take a sip
of it.
He said, "Daddy, why is it so salt?"
Before he finished her sentence, she was asleep.
Wow.
Okay, so adding salt a little bit just before bed might be beneficial then too.
Yeah, a lot like a bowl of very salty chicken broth is a good bedtime sleep inducer.
A gelatin itself, even without the salt and other tasty things, a gelatin helps to bring
on sleep because it tends to support your blood sugar.
Maybe that's why I feel so calm right now because right before this call, I had some
chicken bone broth that I made.
Okay, then the first question I have from a listener is from Betty.
She asks, "I have trouble every night waking around 2 p.m., why is this and what can I
do about it?"
In one set of experiments, people had a tube put in their veins so that they could sample
the blood every 15 minutes and they found that as soon as the lights returned out, the
adrenaline started rising and it was the darkness itself because if the people were still awake,
the adrenaline rose quickly but if they had gone to sleep quickly, when the lights went
out, the adrenaline still increased so the darkness itself is the major cause of the
problem that leads to the high cortisol in the morning.
One of the things that prepares you for keeping your blood sugar up during the night is make
sure that you get bright light all day because that is helping to stabilize your blood sugar
and helping to destroy the glycogen.
In that experiment, it only took 15 minutes for darkness to cause the stress rise of adrenaline.
So interesting, so it's maybe a cortisol imbalance through the day.
If she's not getting out into sunshine and stuff like that, that could be the reason
why she's having that constant wake-up in the night.
And vitamin D which is cumulative in the summer, at the end of the summer, people tend to sleep
better than in late winter.
The cumulative effect of short days and long nights reaches its peak about this time, 1st
of March is a very bad time because of the cumulative long nights but also the vitamin
D level tends to be lowest this time of year and vitamin D and good calcium intake work
to keep your glycogen up just the same way the thyroid does.
Other vitamin D and a good supply of calcium inhibit the parathyroid hormone and one of
the things that the salt does is to inhibit the adrenal aldosterone salt regulating hormone
and inhibiting the aldosterone also inhibits the parathyroid hormone and those two hormones,
aldosterone and parathyroid hormone, interfere with the mitochondria energy producing system.
They knock it down and when those are inhibited, it's the same as being hypothyroid and that
means that you use your sugar wastefully forming lactic acid instead of carbon dioxide and
if you measure the nighttime lactic acid, you would find that it rises along with stress
hormones.
It's one of the signals for increasing the pituitary stress hormones and cortisol.
All of these things work together but vitamin D is one of the crucial things that chronically
will improve your sleep if you keep it up at least in the middle of the range.
One doctor who has some videos on the subject found that I think it was 60 to 70 nanograms
per milliliter of vitamin D in the blood that improved the sleep slightly above the middle
of the range.
I think she would really benefit from some vitamin P and then getting out in the sun
during the day and I can vouch for that.
On these dreary days that we have here in the Midwest, I tend to find out that I wake
a little bit more frequently in the night because I think of the lack of sun during
the day but it doesn't tend to happen that much in the summer so I think you're spot
on there.
Jim G asks, "What do you recommend for feeling groggy upon waking and yet I also seem to
have issues falling asleep at bedtime?"
So it sounds like he's staying awake when he should be going to sleep and he's feeling
sleepy when he should be waking up.
That's a typical low thyroid pattern when your thyroid or vitamin D or anything is impairing
your oxidative metabolism, your sleep stays in the superficial, they call it second phase
of sleep rather than the deep slow-wave sleep and it's the slow-wave sleep that repairs
your tissues and so hypothyroid people might sleep 10 or 11 hours and still not be rested.
So when you're well supplied with energy, thyroid, vitamin D, calcium, then your sleep
can quickly get into the deep slow phase and repair your tissues quickly and so in 7 or
8 hours you can be fully restored, wake up, alert, but when you don't wake up feeling
fresh and ready to do things, coffee and milk is a safe way to get going.
The coffee, if it's backed up with milk and orange juice, the caffeine turns off the stress
hormones.
And with regard to coffee for people that do have sleep issues, are you a fan if they
have a lot of insomnia or a lot of sleep issues going on, should they stop the coffee altogether
or just keep it to the earlier part of the day?
What's your thoughts?
If your liver is very hypothyroid and slow to metabolize things, you might have to stop
your coffee in the early afternoon because it will keep circulating the caffeine.
But when your liver is able to store glycogen, coffee right up to bedtime can improve the
depths of your sleep because one of the anti-stress things it does is to act as an aromatase inhibitor
and since estrogen turns on serotonin and histamine and other stress hormones, caffeine
by taking down estrogen will let your deep sleep come on.
Okay, very good.
Carrie asks, "What is Dr. Pete's opinion on blue light exposure before bed?
I tend to use my phone in bed, before bed, and should I be concerned about the health
effects of this?"
It isn't a very serious amount from a telephone, but the amount in daylight, it is next to
ultraviolet light for toxicity.
In plant physiology, since plants habitually are exposed to daylight for the full extent
of the day, they looked at the effects of the different colors and they found that even
blue light, not to mention the ultraviolet, but the blue light knocks out plant mitochondria
if it's just a matter of the blue light exposure and it's the red light which detoxifies the
blue light so plants, because the sun is rich in red light as well as blue, the red prevents
the toxicity of the blue and ultraviolet.
Other experiments show that it even detoxifies gamma ray poisoning, but the amount of blue
light in a phone isn't going to damage your retina unless you look directly at it for
hours at a time.
That would be an interesting experiment, just to shine a tablet or a phone on a plant in
our house for a length of time and see how well it flourishes, because like you said,
if it doesn't get that full spectrum light, then it's probably the main reason why people
have trouble with house plants and things like that, because now we have so many LED
and fluorescent lights in our home that maybe it's affecting the plants too.
With plant experiments in college, I did a botany experiment with that and red light
alone stimulates photosynthesis and exuberant growth, but it doesn't stimulate the stiffening
and defense reactions, and so the plant grows up and falls over at length, but if it gets
blue light and ultraviolet, that irritates it enough that it produces the defensive structural
cellulose.
If you get too much blue and ultraviolet, the plant gets very stiff and wire-end and
not very exuberant, so it needs some of the irritation to produce the toughened skeletal
growth.
Renee S. asks, "I would like to sleep deeper and I was wondering if Dr. Pete could touch
on what to do about frequent urination at night.
I don't necessarily have a full bladder, but it seems when I wake at night I tend to
have to get up and relieve myself, and sometimes it seems like 2 to 4 times per night.
How can I help this?"
The increase of estrogen under stress is one of the things that does that.
It changes the thresholds for the bladder, makes it more irritable, and by histamines,
aspirin and benadryl, for example, will give immediate relief on that by changing the estrogen-induced
irritability of the bladder, but vitamin G and thyroid are probably the basic thing to
make your antirhetic hormone come on during the night on schedule and then back off at
dawn in the morning.
Healthy kids and old people will have a cyclic antirhetic hormone during the night that simply
turns off your kidneys' urine production almost 100%, and if that doesn't increase during
the night, then your kidneys, because you're lying down, the circulation of your kidneys
tends to increase, and if you don't have the hormone shutting down your urine formation,
then you're actually going to produce more urine during the night than during the daytime.
Vitamin D and thyroid are part of the process of getting your pituitary to release the antirhetic
hormone.
I'm picking up a trend on thyroid and vitamin D, how important those two are, so I hope
other people are picking up on those too while you're listening to this.
Fenny asks, "Are there specific supplements," speaking of, "that Dr. Pete recommends to
help someone sleep deeper?"
One I would like to specifically ask about is a smart drug called Fenny-Butt or Fenny-Boot.
The drugs do work, and that's a fairly harmless one, but caffeine will do the job if you use
it properly and integrated in your schedule.
It activates the kidneys, and if you start off breakfast with some coffee and milk and
orange juice, that will help to get your kidneys active and reinforce the cycle in which they're
very active during the daytime and less active during the night.
The particular drugs that act only to regulate sleep are effective for reinforcing the whole
energy cycle of high energy during the daytime and stored energy used during the night.
You said Fenny-Butt was relatively a harmless drug that you knew of?
Yeah, but I think the antihistamines are better because they work on the mechanism rather
than just acting as a sedative.
Benadryl and the aspirin or teriactin, the real name is Ciproheptidine.
These lower the histamine and serotonin and stop improper excitation so that the stress
hormones are normalized during the night.
What do you think about certain supplements like taking magnesium before bed or ashwagandha,
like adaptogenic herbs and things like that?
The reason thyroid is so effective for bringing on instant sleep is that it allows the cells
to retain magnesium.
Magnesium supplements will only work for an hour or two unless your thyroid is up to where
it should be, a doctor friend was experimenting on his allergy patients.
He found that their symptoms subsided briefly when he gave them intravenous magnesium.
But very shortly after the hour of infusion, their symptoms would come back.
But he gave them a little quick acting thyroid along with the intravenous magnesium and it
cured the allergies.
He lost all his patients because they didn't have any more symptoms and it's the same with
sleep.
You get a temporary, you can even anesthetize yourself with a big dose of magnesium, but
it doesn't cure the problem if the problem is low vitamin D and low thyroid causing your
cells to be unable to retain the magnesium.
That's one of the things the salt at bedtime does is to lower the alblasterone making you
able to retain your magnesium instead of losing it and you're under the night.
When I was traveling, driving all day, I would have trouble going to sleep and I found that
if I chewed up a 5 or 10 microgram tablet of Cytome L, I would be asleep in about five
minutes.
And on one of my trips, I arrived for the doctor who was going to, he was organizing
the talk and I arrived the day before and he was in terrible condition.
He hadn't been able to sleep, he said, for three or four days and I happened to have
my cytome L in my pocket, I gave him, I told him to take a 10 microgram tablet at bedtime.
The next day as I went in, the place where the talk was, he was giving an introduction,
but before he let me talk, he pulled me aside and said, that stuff is better than the opium.
Okay.
So the next question is from Victoria.
Victoria asks, "As for a healthy lifestyle, is Dr. Peter Kay with sleeping in sometimes
or should we always wake at the same schedule?"
Some people do fine with extra sleep, but it can, and many people, it lets the nervous
system shift over to emphasize the parasympathetic rather than the adrenergic sympathetic side
and insensitive people that can hold blood sugar down all day, making you feel groggy
and even headache pain, but if it doesn't have that effect, if you are fully alert after
an extra hour or so of sleep, then it's fine.
So can a patient know thyself if you feel fine after sleeping in, then go for it.
If you don't, you might want to rethink it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So Olga says, "Is it true we need seven to eight hours of sleep every night?
What if I feel fine on five to six hours of sleep?
Is it really harming my health if I have no symptoms of it doing so?"
The statistics suggest, yes, that it is doing damage because the people who, I think it's
between seven to eight and a half hours per night, if they do that, they have the longest
lifespan and the lowest symptoms.
The short sleepers and the very long sleepers tend to have higher sickness problems.
Makes sense.
Okay.
I think you're going to like the next question because you have a teeny tiny listener that
always loves to listen to you, and that's my five-year-old daughter, and she asked a
question to you.
You said, "Dr. Pete, how do you get rid of nightmares?"
Avoiding foods that are disturbing is the most common thing.
People who eat, for example, a big bowl of overspiced chili con carne with beans, that
will often cause nightmares in a person who otherwise wouldn't have them.
Yes.
So something like a food, like maybe if it's a big heavy meal before bed?
Yeah.
If it's very, very detestable, there's no problem, but often there are spicy things
or hard to detest things.
If you get gas during the night, the pressure from the gas is enough to bring on a nightmare.
Okay.
Are there any vitamin or mineral deficiencies that would cause nightmares?
Many.
Many serious deficiencies, starting in the 1930s, one group of experimenters, in particular,
was finding that the liver regulates the hormones, especially estrogen and the stress hormones.
In 1939-1946, they did a series of studies showing that any of the B vitamins, but especially
thiamine and riboflavin deficiencies, keep the liver from eliminating estrogen.
They looked at the men coming back from the Second World War at prison camps where they
had been very malnourished, and a lot of the men had developed breasts when they were given
an abundant diet when they got out, and they found that that was because their livers had
become unable to excrete estrogen, and men, as well as women, are always forming estrogen.
Men almost as much as women, but men's livers are much more able to excrete estrogen, and
estrogen activates histamine, serotonin, cortisol, all of the stress hormones that will increase
symptoms, including nightmares, night terrors, even seizures.
Night terrors are like a light version of night terrors, and night terrors are very
closely related to nocturnal epileptic seizures, very low blood sugar, very high estrogen,
serotonin, and cortisol.
Insomnia is just the first stage of those more serious things.
It was interesting because she wanted to know that this morning, because she had a nightmare
last night.
She normally doesn't have them, but she woke up with a nightmare, and she was like, "Ask
Dr. Pete."
Paul asks, "I have sleep apnea, and I've been on a CPAP for over three years.
What is Dr. Pete's take on the possibility of coming off my CPAP, and can you reverse
sleep apnea?"
Oh, definitely.
I've had two newsletters related to that, one on sleep and one on progesterone, and
I'll probably be doing more, but I first got interested in that over 50 years ago when
I was seeing studies that progesterone regulates breathing, and for newborn babies that aren't
properly starting to breathe normally, they found caffeine was one thing, progesterone
was the other, and so they tried that on adults who were having breathing irregularities,
including sleep apnea, and found that they were low in progesterone, and that supplementing
progesterone or caffeine would restore their breathing reflexes.
The official dogma of doctors is that the carbon dioxide rises too high, but in fact very detailed
measurements have found that these people are hyperventilating, blowing out so much carbon
dioxide that there is not enough carbon dioxide to stimulate their breathing reflex, and so
they will stop breathing until the carbon dioxide builds up, and what progesterone and
caffeine are doing is to activate the metabolism so that more carbon dioxide and less lactic
acid is formed, and for about, I think, 70 years now, doctors have had great success chemically
using a pharmaceutical called acetazolamide, a patent named Diamox, that blocks the carbonic
anhydrase enzyme. That has been a traditional, perfect cure for sleep apnea, showing that
it's a carbon dioxide deficiency that fails, causes the failure of the breathing reflex.
But behind the progesterone deficiency and the carbon dioxide deficiency, there is a
basic deficiency of thyroid and vitamin D. So people, everyone that I have personally
known who had sleep apnea problems, are corrected just by taking thyroid.
Awesome, and so he would probably maybe benefit from a little bit of natural progesterone as
well, just a little supplementation. Yeah, the progesterone works immediately, so that
one dose of bedtime, the person will breathe through the night, but the low thyroid means
that you're going to have elevated estrogen making the need for progesterone higher because
it's supposed by high estrogen. So the thyroid and vitamin D and aspirin and caffeine are
things that hold your estrogen under control, so that the amount of progesterone you produce
normally is usually enough. That is so interesting. When I was in my toxic
mold time of life that was not very fun, I was having trouble breathing, and that was
the time when my progesterone was at its all-time lowest due to the stress my body was under.
So I figured that out and was able to start supplementing with progesterone, but that
actually does help your breathing. It gets rid of that catch in your breath that starts
to show up whenever you're low on progesterone. Yeah, that was discovered in babies over 50
years ago that progesterone makes them breathe normally.
We have an anonymous question asker, and they said, "I have a sleep disorder that is aided
by medication, but I don't want to be on sleep meds. How does Dr. Pete recommend one going
off their sleep medication safely?" Some of sleep drugs are a dictate, so you
have to take that into account. Progesterone has been used for withdrawing
from several different kinds of addictive drugs, opiates, and a variety of stimulating
pharmaceuticals, but progesterone supplements are really just another crutch that is safer
until you get your own physiology working, which usually requires supplementing, changing
your diet so that there's enough protein and calcium and vitamin T and then taking a thyroid
supplement if that's deficient. Yeah, sort of going to the root cause, which
is generally the thyroid, which is why you needed the sleep medication in the first place
usually because of the disorder. Okay, June asks, "I wake every morning with
bags under my eyes, but yet when I go to bed at night, they're generally flatter," I guess
she wrote. So what to do about bags under the eyes in the morning?
The water regulation involves the antidiuretic hormone and several other hormones, aldosterone
and parathyroid hormone, and prolactin are other things that are involved in that disposition
of water. When you get horizontal, the water that tended to be in your legs redistributes
and will show up in your face. And then when you're vertical for several hours, it drains
out of your face and into your feet. And getting all of these hormones so that they're on a
proper cycle, albumin and sodium work together to carry excess water from your tissues to
delivering the water to your kidneys. And that should be very active during the daytime.
But you don't retain the sodium properly if you're deficient in calcium, magnesium, and
low thyroid function is constantly losing both sodium and magnesium in their urine.
Sometimes I'm aware that water retention has to do with low progesterone. Could she benefit
from the water retention around the face with supplementation of progesterone?
Yeah, it's, a progenetalone and progesterone are the quickest acting things. The lungs are
the most dangerous place for water regulating problems to occur. When you're in shock or
under extreme stress, the lungs take up water and become water logs so that the oxygen has
a thicker pathway to get to the blood. And estrogen in animal experiments it was found
that estrogen in less than an hour would increase the water content of rats lungs so that 90%
of the ability of oxygen to reach the blood disappeared 90 to 95% in less than an hour
after big infection of estrogen. And lots of people poorly nourish low thyroid or under
stress will have this high ratio of estrogen to progesterone. And I've seen people in just
about an hour shift their water balances when they took a good supplement of progesterone
so that their breathing improved, they started forming urine because their blood started
carrying water out of their tissues delivering it to their bladder.
Okay, so that's something that definitely would be beneficial is again we're looking
at thyroid help and then also progesterone and probably vitamin D would help her as well,
right?
Yeah, vitamin A is really central for all of these things for making progesterone and
DHEA.
Okay, Glenn asks, so I think he's talking about not food or supplements but environmentally.
He said environmentally speaking I would like to know what Dr. Pete recommends to help improve
sleep such as what kinds of things should we should have or not have I think he meant
should we have. We're not having our bedroom and also are there habits we are doing during
the day that can affect our sleep at night?
Muscular activity, some kind of physical exertion during the afternoon raises your body temperature.
It can be weight lifting or just doing squats to make your muscles produce some heat. Keeping
your body temperature up in the cell spares your glucose for the night and having bright
lights up during all of your daylight hours when you're working and then dimming the lights
when you're starting to prepare for sleep like maybe half an hour before sleep, dimming
the lights starts turning down your nervous system.
Glenn, anything that you would say he should have or not have in the bedroom?
Advice that ionizes the air. It increases your lungs ability to remove the serotonin
which is circulating in everyone's blood and air ionizer can make a big difference for
some people keeping it right by your close plus your head of the bed.
Okay, what about an ozone machine? I've seen people buy ozone machines for their bedroom.
If there's any benefit from those it's the negative air ions but the ozone itself is
toxic to your lungs and with an overexposure of ozone that will have this effect similar
to estrogen inflaming your lungs causing impaired oxygen absorption.
So those are all of the questions I have. Now I wanted to ask something more towards
you like as far as like you mentioned how important thyroid is and I'm assuming thyroid
supplementation since there are so many things that affect our thyroid. Do you still take
a thyroid supplement and what do you recommend?
For about, I didn't start taking it until I think I was 38 or something like that but
since I was about 10 years old I had suspected that I was hypothyroid but I couldn't accept
the idea because measuring my metabolic rate I sometimes ate five times as many calories
as other people. In a physiology class I measured my oxygen consumption. The professor thought
the machine was broken or something because I was using five times more oxygen per minute
than proper. So I had trouble convincing myself that I could be hypothyroid. When I finally
tried it within a week or two I was sleeping more deeply and able to relax and my caloric
requirement dropped by about 50% and I've seen since then several people mostly males
who no matter how much they ate couldn't gain weight and as soon as they took a thyroid
supplement their metabolism quieted down and became more efficient so that they could put
on muscle.
And as far as the one that you personally take, what is that?
At that time, our armor had been standardized. They made it from both pork and beef and tested
every batch for potency on mice so it was an absolutely ideal product that had been
existing for almost 100 years. Then the company was sold and immediately the new companies
altered the formula taking out part of the substance and the tablet just wasn't behaving
the same so I looked around and I found a first synthetic made by the armor company called
Thyrolar which chemically imitated their standardized product. And then the new companies stopped
distributing that so I found a Mexican product called Cino Plus had imitated the Thyrolar
formula and ever since the 90s when I started using this product which at that time cost
less than a dollar a bottle and the armor thyroid didn't incidentally cost a penny a
tablet but it was the re-sales. The pharmaceutical industry isn't satisfied with a 50% markup.
They wanted a 100 fold markup and so the Mexican tablets had less drastic increase from one
dollar 20 years later they have increased to $15 a bottle but that's still much more
economical and it's a very reliable product.
Okay, very good to know. And do you supplement a vitamin D too or are you able to get sun
where you are?
I'm in Mexico. It's the only time I don't need it but in Oregon I always take 5,000
units a day.
Wonderful, okay. So good to know. And then a little personal question, what time do you
go to bed?
What was that?
What time do you go to bed?
Oh, what time?
Yeah.
Oh, I try to make it close to 10.30. The regularity is very important. When I was teaching school
and had to be absolutely on time I found that during a vacation at my normal bedtime 10.30
if I was trying to do something else my metabolism would shut down and I would get cold.
Oh yeah.
That happens to me. I try to go to bed by 9 and if I don't I get cold too so that's
interesting. And then are you an early riser or do you like to sleep in a little bit?
I try to get 8.5 hours every night.
Okay, well you have answered so many questions. I'm sure everybody will love this podcast
because sleep is such a major issue that so many people are dealing with so I hope you
guys found this valuable. Once again, make sure and sign up for Dr. Pete's newsletter
and stay tuned for more of these. I love when you do this with me, Dr. Pete. I really appreciate
this and it's fun for me to learn so much from you so I appreciate it.
Okay.
All right, well I'll say goodbye for now and we will reconvene at another time. Thank you
so much, Dr. Pete.
Okay, bye.
Bye-bye.
What's up YouTube followers? Just a quick promo code for you of my show sponsor, dropinfbomb.com.
You can get healthy oil packets like coconut oil, MCT oil and their little pork stick salt
and pepper pork sticks, no hormones, no nitrates, no artificial anything. Just really great
ingredients that are quick and easy and on the go. Use my code GETFIT to save 10% and
go to dropinfbomb.com today to get your packets of on the go convenient foods, healthy convenient
foods and it's a healthy way to drop an F bomb today.
[Music ends]